# 6.1-1

What are the minimum and maximum numbers of elements in a heap of height h?

min - 2 ^ h;
max - 2 ^ (h+1) - 1

## 6.1-2

Show that an n-element heap has height [lg n].

4 elements - 2 height
7 elements - 2 height

## 6.1-3

Show that in any subtree of a max-heap, the root of the subtree contains the largest
value occurring anywhere in that subtree.

Since for every node i , value(i) > value(leftChild[i]) && value(rightChild(i)), it will be largest of all its descendants

## 6.1-4

Where in a max-heap might the smallest element reside, assuming that all elements
are distinct?

it will be one of the leaf nodes as all other nodes are bigger than their child nodes, so they cannot be minimum

## 6.1-5

At which levels in a max-heap might the k th largest element reside, for 2 <= k <= n/2, assuming that all elements are distinct?

it can be anywhere from 2 to min(k, log n - 1)

## 6.1-6

Is an array that is in sorted order a min-heap?

if the array is sorted in ascending order, it will be min heap as any element i is smaller than element at 2i, 2i+1.

## 6.1-7

Is the array with values (33; 19; 20; 15; 13; 10; 2; 13; 16; 12 ) a max-heap?

NO , it is not a max heap as element 15 is smaller than its right child 16.

## 6.1-8

Show that, with the array representation for storing an n-element heap, the leaves
are the nodes indexed by (n/2) + 1; (n/2) + 2, ... n.

Since the index of the left child is larger than the number of elements in the heap, the node doesn't have childrens and thus is a leaf. Same goes for all nodes with larger indices.
